for my brother's wedding for the mermaid
my mommy gave me this beautiful sari
it's a color that I don't own this is
gorgeous rosy blue with this beautiful
antique work on it and it's got this
lovely gold border so it's a simple sari
with a contrasting blouse it's going to
have a blouse made today but I just
wanted to show you how the sorry no scar
so but open it out you can see that this
is the main body of the starving
as I get to the edges you can see that
the blouse piece has a contrasting color
now you can tell that this is the best
last piece because it's sewn on to the
inner part that's a sari so what I need
to do is before I can wear this I need
to put a fold on the end who's made out
of crepe you can see already that it's
starting to turn inward so just by
having a fold put at the back of that
it's going to stop the Safari from
folding inwards and it makes helps it
keep its shape as it falls down
especially around the police area and it
will stop it from stop it from catching
in my toenails and it just finishes sari
nice it will fall nicely and it won't
warp up and fold up so what I need to do
now you can see this is the blouse piece
because of the border so you've got a
random piece of material just here and
then you've got another piece here these
are the sleeve parts these are the parts
that will make up the sleeve sometimes
you get another piece for the back of
the thyroid glass but in this case you
don't and in other places where the
thyroid glass is going to be cut at the
back you'll have a whole knit piece just
randomly place so you can tell that
that's the blouse piece also this end is
the end with the lighter work and
because this this light work follows all
the way through the sari you know that
this is the body the main part the sari
that wraps around your body and then the
bit that actually goes over the shoulder
or to the front I would probably wear to
save the show
over my art because it's lightweight
easy to carry the service more or less
simple with the blouse being
contrast with very little work on the
one side which is the bit like Harrah's
over I would wear this over my shoulder
wear it much easier it's got a little
bit more embroidery in fact the Cyrus
got embroidery most of the way this sort
of antique stone copper style embroidery
that's all the way throughout the sorry
but something different is that the edge
bit here is finished so that's how you
know which bit hangs over a lot people
ask me well what's the bit that hangs
over which side do I start with so the
purpose of showing you this sari is to
show you that how to identify which part
is the bit that you tuck into the waist
on which part is the bit that goes over
your shoulder and it makes it doubly
complicated when the sari blouse is
attached like this because you think you
might think that that's the bit that
goes over the shoulder but actually this
would be too short for that and you know
then you'd have a lovely ornate piece on
the other end that tuck thing to your
tummy it just wouldn't work it and in
fact if we tried to joke the wrong way
around you know you could do it I guess
but you'll find that you're tucking in
this in ornate what this this border so
your chat you'd end up tucking in this
border and hiding it and you know
whereas the right way there wouldn't be
any of this border I hope I'm explaining
that clearly enough so this border
should actually stop at some point it
would if I went in the right way
no it doesn't at the bottom you'll see
it but that's the bit that you tuck in
to start off with floor end and there's
nothing on the bottom part there and as
you start coming up which you might find
a border there
here we go the border starts here and
that should be the part that becomes
starts to become visible once you start
you know doing the falls in your feet so
what I'm going to do is cut this piece
out and have this piece ready to be made
into a sari
it's machine sewn in so I could undo all
of these stitches but I really don't
have the patience for it I think I'm
just going to do a nice neat cut across
in the middle and obviously wherever I
cut this part of the sorry I have to hem
in the edge but I'm going to now take
this off to the tailor to be made I just
want to finish off this video by showing
you the blouse I had it back this is the
main material that the that was part of
the farm flowers and you can see that it
was like this coppery gold with stripes
on it
and then on the edges it has this little
brocade detail it's very brocade like
material very stiff but then on the back
what I understood all the thought that
was going to happen was that on the back
I was going to have a blue patch and on
one side and then a patch that was gold
on the other but when they got it they
decided that actually this would look
better so it's like a to me looks like a
little bikini in the in the back against
the blue but they've got this gorgeous
brooch right there in the center and
when that's worn backless you know with
just that then I think it's going to
look stunning
it's really important to have these
strips or I don't know what you call
these
strength put in at the back of the
blouse you know I keep telling all my
brides to do it and I had the case a
couple of weekends ago with my last
Bridal where she had the most gorgeous
gorgeous white and red saree on it
wasn't very happy the site itself but
just the ornate work on the on the
border was very very heavy and what
happened is that I pinned the sari to
the blouse and the blouse didn't come up
to here like it should do it it actually
stopped around here so when you pin the
fari here at the weight of it with the
stones and the work was pulling the
blouse down and this and in turn the
sari was going further and further down
the shoulders and that really does spoil
the look because you know sorry it has
to be placed just right and if these
things that are here will pop onto the
back of the blaze which hers weren't
they would have stayed together it would
have stayed up and she wouldn't you know
her felt like she's got like a handbag
strap just popping down all the time it
was that kind of weight it does for the
show a little bit so it's really
important I do feel that all my blouses
should have these on them